# libsophistry
This library defines a common image scanline and a common audio buffer format.  This library is meant for use by image, video, and audio codecs, so that the codecs can each share the same buffer objects to transfer image and audio data to and from multimedia data files.  libsophistry does not define any codecs on its own, focusing purely on the definition of objects used to get multimedia data in and out of multimedia files.

The image scanline defined by libsophistry supports a width in pixels from one up to and including 268,435,456 pixels.  Each pixel is a 32-bit unsigned integer that encodes 8-bit alpha, red, green, and blue channels in ARGB order from most significant byte to least significant byte.  The alpha channel is zero for fully transparent, 255 for fully opaque, and linear in between.  The RGB channels vary from zero for no intensity to 255 for full intensity.  The nonlinear encoding (gamma correction) of the RGB channels is equivalent to the sRGB standard.  The RGB primaries definitions and D65 whitepoint are equivalent to both the sRGB standard and the ITU-R BT.709-6 ("Rec. 709") standard.  The alpha channel is non-premultiplied with respect to the RGB channels.

The audio buffer defined by libsophistry supports from one up to and including 268,435,456 samples.  Each sample is a 32-bit unsigned integer that encodes a 16-bit left channel and a 16-bit right channel, with the left channel in the 16 most significant bits and the right channel in the 16 least significant bits.  Channels are encoded such that zero is the lowest value and 65,535 is the highest value.  In order to convert channels to Linear Pulse Code Modulation (Linear PCM or LPCM), subtract the channel by 32,768, such that channel value zero maps to LPCM value -32,768, channel value 32,768 maps to LPCM value zero, and channel value 65,535 maps to LPCM value 32,767.

libsophistry also supports auxiliary functions to aid in converting from the image scanline and audio buffer formats used by Sophistry into other common formats.  This is intended for codecs that have image or audio data in a different format.
